[DOC] Add anomaly detection tutorial (#1782)
open-edge-platform/training_extensions: docs/source/guide/tutorials/base/how_to_train/anomaly_detection.rst

> Anomaly Detection model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anomaly Detection Tutorial
```

================================

> This tutorial demonstrates how to train, evaluate, and deploy a classification, detection, or segmentation model for anomaly detection in industrial or medical applications.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can place a link to the explanation page of the anomaly tasks here.

Author: Done

The process has been tested with the following configuration:

- Ubuntu 20.04
- NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090
- Intel(R) Core(TM) i9-10980XE
- CUDA Toolkit 11.1

> 

Reviewer: Please, add here links as note as below:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68103869/220469307-038ea7cf-58fc-4351-bcd2-1ad5735d7d0f.png)

Author: I haven't added link training process with additional parameters as I didn't really test it so not sure if it will work with anomaly tasks.

*****************************
Setup the Virtual environment
*****************************

> To create a universal virtual environment for OTX, please follow the installation process in the :doc:`quick start guide <../../../get_started/quick_start_guide/installation>`. 

Reviewer 2: ~~OTX~~ OpenVINO Training Extensions

Author: Done

> Alternatively, if you want to only train anomaly models then you can just use ``pip install -e .[anomaly]``

Reviewer: Did you check it? Is it working now, because as I remember there were some problems

Author: Yeah. I tried this at the `pip install -e .[full]` step. Maybe I can make it more explicit here.

**************************
Dataset Preparation
**************************

Since the anomaly tasks in OTX depend on `Anomalib <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/anomalib>`_, let's use a `Toy Dataset <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/anomalib/data/hazelnut_toy.html>`_ from Anomalib to demonstrate the process.

You can download and extract the dataset by running the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    wget https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/anomalib/_downloads/3f2af1d7748194b18c2177a34c03a2c4/hazelnut_toy.zip
    unzip hazelnut_toy.zip
    mv hazelnut_toy data/anomaly

The last command moves the dataset to the ``data/anomaly`` directory.

This is how it should look like in your file system:

.. code-block:: bash

    data/anomaly/hazelnut_toy/
    ├── colour
    │   ├── 00.jpg
    │   ├── 01.jpg
    │   ...
    ├── crack
    │   ├── 01.jpg
    │   ...
    ├── good
    │   ├── 00.jpg
    │   ├── 01.jpg
    │   ...
    ├── LICENSE
    └── mask
        ├── colour
        │   ├── 00.jpg
        │   ├── 01.jpg
        │   ...
        └── crack
            ├── 01.jpg
            ├── 02.jpg

>             ...

Reviewer 2: Should we give some pointers on how users should structure their data if they want to train on custom datasets?

Reviewer 3: > Should we give some pointers on how users should structure their data if they want to train on custom datasets?

We can use link below:
https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/training_extensions/tree/develop/tests/assets/anomaly/shapes

Author: I decided to use MVTec as it gives better performance compared to the shapes dataset. The shapes dataset was synthetically generated for the purpose of testing.

Let's proceed with PADIM for this example. 

.. code-block:: bash

    otx train ote_anomaly_detection_padim --train-data-roots data/anomaly/hazelnut_toy --val-data-roots data/anomaly/hazelnut_toy

This will start training and generate artifacts for commands such as ``export`` and ``optimize``. You will notice the ``otx-workspace-ANOMALY_DETECTION`` directory in your current working directory. This is where all the artifacts are stored.

**************
Evaluation
**************

Now that we have trained the model, let's see how it performs on the a specific dataset. In this example we will use the same dataset to generate evaluation metrics. To perform evaluation you need to run the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    otx eval ote_anomaly_detection_padim \
        --test-data-roots data/anomaly/hazelnut_toy \
        --load-weights otx-workspace-ANOMALY_DETECTION/models/weights.pth \
        --save-performance otx-workspace-ANOMALY_DETECTION/performance.json

You should see an output similar to the following::

>     MultiScorePerformance(score: 0.9032258064516128, primary_metric: None, additional_metrics: (1 metrics), dashboard: (1 metric groups))

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could add some explanation about the different score types here (global and local)

Author: I have updated it. Let me know if it is fine.

    Find more information about API v2.0 and IR v11 at https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/openvino_2_0_transition_guide.html
    [ SUCCESS ] Generated IR version 11 model.
    [ SUCCESS ] XML file: /tmp/otx-anomaliba3imqkmo/onnx_model.xml
    [ SUCCESS ] BIN file: /tmp/otx-anomaliba3imqkmo/onnx_model.bin

Now that we have the exported model, let's check its performance using ``otx eval``

.. code-block:: bash

    otx eval ote_anomaly_detection_padim \
        --test-data-roots data/anomaly/hazelnut_toy \
        --load-weights otx-workspace-ANOMALY_DETECTION/openvino_models/openvino.xml \
        --save-performance otx-workspace-ANOMALY_DETECTION/openvino_models/performance.json

This gives the following results::

    MultiScorePerformance(score: 0.8974358974358974, primary_metric: None, additional_metrics: (1 metrics), dashboard: (1 metric groups))

************
Optimization
************

Anomaly tasks can be optimized either in POT or NNCF format. For more information refer to the :doc:`optimization explanation <../../../explanation/additional_features/models_optimization>` section.

----------------

> POT Optimization

Reviewer: Maybe don't make them as stand-alone sections? I prefer combine them as for other tutorials

Author: I added these as sub-headings to make it more readable. But I don't mind merging these

----------------

Let's start with POT optimization.

.. code-block:: bash

    otx optimize ote_anomaly_detection_padim \
        --train-data-roots data/anomaly/hazelnut_toy/ \
        --load-weights otx-workspace-ANOMALY_DETECTION/openvino_models/openvino.xml \
        --save-model-to otx-workspace-ANOMALY_DETECTION/pot_model

-----------------
NNCF Optimization
-----------------

To perform NNCF optimization, pass the torch ``pth`` weights to the ``opitmize`` command.

.. code-block:: bash

    otx optimize ote_anomaly_detection_padim \
        --train-data-roots data/anomaly/hazelnut_toy/ \
        --load-weights otx-workspace-ANOMALY_DETECTION/models/weights.pth \
        --save-model-to otx-workspace-ANOMALY_DETECTION/nncf_model

*******************************
Segmentation and Classification
*******************************

> While the above example shows Anomaly Detection, you can also train Anomaly Segmentation and Classification models. To see what tasks are available, you can pass ``anomaly_segmentation`` and ``anomaly_classification`` to ``otx find`` mentioned in the `Training`_ section. You can then use the same commands to train, evaluate, export and optimize the models.

Reviewer: What about dataset? Dataset format and dataset itself is the same?

Author: I have updated to use the standard MVTec dataset

**************
Evaluation
**************

Now that we have trained the model, let's see how it performs on the a specific dataset. In this example we will use the same dataset to generate evaluation metrics. To perform evaluation you need to run the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

    otx eval ote_anomaly_detection_padim \
        --test-data-roots datasets/MVTec/bottle/test \
        --load-weights otx-workspace-ANOMALY_DETECTION/models/weights.pth \
        --save-performance otx-workspace-ANOMALY_DETECTION/performance.json

You should see an output similar to the following::

    MultiScorePerformance(score: 0.6356589147286821, primary_metric: ScoreMetric(name=`f-measure`, score=`0.6356589147286821`), additional_metrics: (1 metrics), dashboard: (2 metric groups))

The primary metric here is the f-measure computed against the ground-truth bounding boxes. It is also called the local score. In addition, f-measure is also used to compute the global score. The global score is computed based on global label of the image. That is, the image is anomalous if it contains at least one anomaly. This global score is stored as an additional metric.

.. note::

>     All tasks use the f-measure as the primary metric for computing global scores. In case of classification tasks, accuracy is also added to the dashboard metrics. For detection tasks, f-measure is also used for computing the local (bounding boxes) scores. And, for the segmentation tasks, the  Dice Average score is used as the local (segmentation masks) scores.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All task types report Image-level F-measure as the primary metric. In addition, both localization tasks (anomaly detection and anomaly segmentation) also report localization performance (F-measure for anomaly detection and Dice-coefficient for anomaly segmentation).
```
